.\"
.\" Source Version: 3.0
.\" Software Release #: LLNL-CODE-422942
.\"
.\" include cpyright.h
.\"

.TH ATDBG 1 "6 December 2004"
.SH NAME
atdbg \- attach a debugger to a named process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atdbg [-a] [-e <path>] [-h] [-p <pid>] [-q] [-r] [-v] [-w] [name]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
Present list of named jobs and attach a debugger to selected one.
The preferred debugger may be specified in order of preference with
the SC_DEBUGGER environment variable.  If SC_DEBUGGER is not defined,
it will check for one of the following debuggers in order: totalview,
gdb, or dbx.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Ignore user's ~/.ls-jobs-remove file to find all processes.
.TP
.B \-e
Full path to desired program.
.TP
.B \-h
A short summary help message.
.TP
.B \-p
Attach to the specified PID.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.
.TP
.B \-r
Do a call stack trace only.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-w
Print the debugger being used and exit.


.SH EXAMPLES

   atdbg make
         This example will check all user jobs with the string make
         in the command and present each one to you with the option
         to attach a debugger it or not.

   atdbg -r -p 314 -e `which sx`
         This example will print the call stack of the executable sx
         running in process 314.

   atdbg -r -p 314
         This example will determine the executable running in
         process 314 and print the call stack of the current execution
         state.

   atdbg -w
         Prints out the full path of the debugger being used.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

SC_DEBUGGER  should be one or more "totalview", "gdb", or "dbx".
             For example, setenv SC_DEBUGGER gdb:totalview, will
             cause atdbg to look first for gdb then totalview.
.SH FILES

None.

.SH SEE ALSO

.B cleanup-jobs(1), ls-jobs(1), sign(1)

.SH BUGS
.TP 
.B None known.

