.\"
.\" Source Version: 3.0
.\" Software Release #: LLNL-CODE-422942
.\"
.\" include cpyright.h
.\"

.TH LS-JOBS 1 "22 August 2006"
.SH NAME
ls-jobs \- list processes by name rather than by pid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls-jobs [-a] [-c] [-d <lst>] [-dn <lst>] [-ds] [-h] [-q] [-r <name>]
[-rn] [-s #] [-st] [-t #] [-u user] [-v] [name]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
List jobs by name or command line pattern and
by user.  This is guaranteed to run the same way
on all platforms and different versions of PS.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B a
- All users (i.e. do not restrict to a specified single user).
.TP
.B c
- Run continuously ala top.
.TP
.B d
- Suppress descendants of the comma-delimited list of PIDs.
.TP
.B dn
- Show only descendants of the list of PIDs.
.TP
.B ds
- Suppress descendants of this process (ls-jobs).
.TP
.B h
- A short summary help message.
.TP
.B q
- quiet mode; prints only essential information; useful when invoking
ls-jobs from another script.
.TP
.B r
- Use specified file to supply names and remove lines matching specified
patterns from results.
.TP
.B rn
- Do not use a remove file to suppress any processes.
Default:  ~/.ls-jobs-remove
.TP
.B s
- Sort results by specified field.
.TP
.B st
- Show job status (e.g. R, S, T, ...).
.TP
.B t
- Print the topmost # lines only.
.TP
.B u
- Print only processes owned by the specified user.
.TP
.B v
- Verbose mode.
.TP
.B name
- Executable name or command line pattern
used to identify processes.


.SH EXAMPLES

   ls-jobs
   ls-jobs -h
   ls-jobs -s 5
   ls-jobs -a -t 20 -c

   # Quiet mode.  Suppress fluff.
   ls-jobs -q my_job

   # Verbose mode.  Supply additional fluff.
   ls-jobs -v my_job

   # Sort by field 1 (line begins with field 0).
   ls-jobs my_job -s 1

   # List only processes owned by specified owner name.
   ls-jobs -u fred

   # Suppress descendants of the comma delimited list of pids.
   ls-jobs -d 814,8263,32730

   # Show only descendants of the list of pids.
   ls-jobs -dn 814,8263,32730

   # Run continuously.
   ls-jobs -c -q my_job

.SH FILES

~/.ls-jobs-remove  filter out lines matching patterns specified in file

.SH SEE ALSO

.B cleanup-jobs(1), sign(1)

.SH BUGS
.TP 
.B None known.

