.\"
.\" Source Version: 3.0
.\" Software Release #: LLNL-CODE-422942
.\"
.\" include cpyright.h
.\"

.TH ULTRA 1 "10 January 2005"
.SH NAME
ultra \- 1d data analysis and visualization tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ultra [-e] [-h] [-i] [-l <file>]* [-m] [-n] [-q] [-r] [-s] [-u] [-w]
.B       <file> | (<scheme-command>)

.SH DESCRIPTION

Ultra is used to visualize and analyze 1d data sets.  By 1d data
sets we mean single valued functions of a single variable, f(x).
You can plot data, perform a wide variety of operations on your
data, and send the results to one or more output media.

Using ultra you can work with data from files or data created with
a variety of built in commands.  Ultra reads data from ASCII files
of a certain form. It also reads binary ultra files which are a kind
of PDB file.  The process of producing ultra files is explained in
the Ultra Manual.

Ultra has a built in interpreter which allows the user to define
arbitrary functions which can be use to manipulate or generate data.
The SCHEME language is the primary language of ULTRA, but it also
parses C (at the beta level) and Fortran (at the alpha level).

Ultra can be run without any graphics simply to process 1d data.
With graphics, data can be displayed to the screen or sent to
media files as Postscript, JPEG, PNG, MPEG, or CGM.

A complete description of Ultra cannot be given here.  Consult the
web pages at http://pact.llnl.gov


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
Abort on error instead of returning to the interpreter.
.TP
.B \-h
A summary help message.
.TP
.B \-i
Do not use interrupt driven I/O.
.TP
.B \-l
Load file containing commands (Scheme or C syntax).
.TP
.B \-m
On X systems do drawing to pixmap and then blt.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not load the standard interpreted command files.
.TP
.B \-q
Do not display the ULTRA banner.
.TP
.B \-r
Do not load the .ultrarc file.
.TP
.B \-s
Start up in command mode with no graphics window.
.TP
.B \-u
Start up in graphics mode with a window (default).
.TP
.B \-w
On X systems do all drawing directly to the window.

.SH EXAMPLES

   ultra
   ultra foo.dat
   ultra -l foo.scm foo.dat
   ultra -i foo.dat


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

ULTRA  path variable to tell interpreter where to look for files
containing interpreted code.  (Do not set this unless you know what
you are doing).

.SH BUGS
.TP 
.B None known.

